# Honeypot Lab (in progress.)

## Objective

Setting up a honeypot on Ubuntu is a great way to learn about cyberattacks by creating a fake system that looks vulnerable. This fake system attracts attackers, which security teams can watch the attackers actions, what tools they use, and why they're attacking. The information gathered helps improve cyber defense, protect real systems, and stay ahead of potential threats, all while keeping the actual network safe. 

### Skills Learned


- Skill 1
- Skill 2

### Tools Used

- List the tools and what you did with it.

## Steps

These are the steps to create a vulnerable system to trick attackers.

### 1.Updating the Operating System
<p>
    We need to update our OS by doing this command.
</p>
<div>
<a href="https://postimg.cc/KKL91jtZ">
    <p>
    "sudo apt update && sudo apt upgrade -y".
    </p>
</a>
</div>
<p>
        Keeping your system updated with the latest patches is essential to prevent attackers from exploiting vulnerabilities during the setup process. Regular updates enhance the security and stability of your honeypot environment.
    </p>
</div>

### 2.Installing our Honeypot Tool
<p>
   Now installing the Honeypot tool is easy! The tool we will use is Cowrie and we need to first pull it from GitHub.
</p>
<div>
<a href="https://postimg.cc/yJQh1WNR">
    <p>
    "sudo apt install python3-pip git -y".
    </p>
</a>
<p>
        First we need to install git in our OS with python3. Our honeypot Cowrie and its dependencies rely on python3. 
    </p>
</div>
<div>
<a href="https://postimg.cc/8JMZsrzj">
    <p>
    "git clone https://github.com/cowrie/cowrie.git".
    </p>
</a>
<p>
        Second we will clone the Cowrie Git repository (you must type in the link, you cannot copy and paste unfortunately) We now have Cowrie on our Ubuntu Machine. 
    </p>
</div>
<div>
<a href="https://postimg.cc/rzhBB9cy">
    <p>
    "./bin/cowrie start".
    </p>
</a>
<p>
        Now lastly we will now start cowrie. If bin/cowrie is not found, you will need to make sure Cowrie is still there by doing the "ls" command. If Cowrie is there then you will need to cd to cowrie and install python3 there. Then you must install the source code for Cowrie and install the upgrade and the requirements. Then you can configure it and now start Cowrie. 
    </p>
    <p>These are the commands you'll need to type if bin/cowrie wasn't found.</p>
    <ol>
  <li>
    Install dependencies:
    <pre><code>sudo apt update
sudo apt install python3-pip git python3-venv -y</code></pre>
  </li>
  <li>
    Clone the Cowrie repository:
    <pre><code>git clone https://github.com/cowrie/cowrie.git</code></pre>
  </li>
  <li>
    Navigate into the Cowrie directory:
    <pre><code>cd cowrie</code></pre>
  </li>
  <li>
    Set up a Python virtual environment:
    <pre><code>python3 -m venv cowrie-env
source cowrie-env/bin/activate</code></pre>
  </li>
  <li>
    Upgrade pip and install required dependencies:
    <pre><code>pip install --upgrade pip
pip install -r requirements.txt</code></pre>
  </li>
  <li>
    Copy the default configuration file:
    <pre><code>cp etc/cowrie.cfg.dist etc/cowrie.cfg</code></pre>
  </li>
  <li>
    Start Cowrie:
    <pre><code>./bin/cowrie start</code></pre>
  </li>
</ol>
</div>

### 3.How can we Monitor the Logs?
<p>
    We need to now monitor the logs that are generated by our honeypot to understand the attackers actions and analyze the attacks they are performing.
</p>
<div>
<a href="https://postimg.cc/LhMcLjZ9">
    <p>
    "tail var/log/cowrie/cowrie.log"
    </p>
</a>
<p>
       Likely you'll run into some problems. You'll most likely discover that the log file wasn't found. You will most likely need to create the output in the configuration file and try to do it again.
    </p>
<ol>
  <li>
    List Cowrie’s log directory:
    <pre><code>ls var/log/cowrie</code></pre>
    <ul>
      <li>
        If you get a “No such file or directory” error, it means the directory doesn’t exist yet. You can create it:
        <pre><code>mkdir -p var/log/cowrie</code></pre>
      </li>
      <li>
        Alternatively, confirm that Cowrie was installed or configured correctly before proceeding.
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>
    Open the Cowrie configuration file to edit it:
    <pre><code>nano etc/cowrie.cfg</code></pre>
  </li>
  <li>
    Specify the location of the Cowrie log file in the config:
    <pre><code>log.output = var/log/cowrie/cowrie.log</code></pre>
  </li>
  <li>
    Continuously monitor the Cowrie log file in real-time: 
    <pre><code>tail -f var/log/cowrie/cowrie.log</code></pre>
      We will use this for when we attack the honeypot.
  </li>
</ol>
</div>

### 4.Adding our own Files
<p>
    Before we start our attack, we must put some files to really understand how to trick the attacker.
</p>
<div>
<a href="https://postimg.cc/kRDCzb3Y">
    <p>
    "Fake confidential information"
    </p>
</a>

### 5.Attacking the Honeypot
<p>
    Let's now attack our honeypot by using Kali Linux! 
</p>
